well as we've been mentioning hospitals
across the Gaza Strip are at Breaking
Point Israel has asked 21 Hospitals and
Clinics including in Northern Gaza to
evacuate these hospitals are not just
treating thousands of injured
Palestinians but also Sheltering
hundreds of displaced
families despite continued hisra air
strikes doctors have refused to leave
saying that would mean death for
critically ill patients and children on
ventilators at least 20 8 health workers
and First Responders have been killed
and 15 Health Centers including
hospitals have been damaged hospitals
across Gaza are now on the final hours
of fuel reserves to run life-saving
medical devices including ventilators
and dialysis machines morgs are
overflowing and the situation at gaza's
largest hospital is so dire they're
burying a 100 bodies in a mass grave as
an emergency measure the World Health
organiz ation says they're concerned
about disease outbreaks in hospitals
where there's little water or
sanitation the agency says life-saving
aid for 300,000 patients is waiting to
enter through RAF but so far no truck
has been allowed
in Dr Margaret Harris is a spokesperson
for the World Health Organization she
joins us now from Geneva good to have
you with us so the facts I just read out
they point to a very alarming situ
situation just take us through what Gaza
is going to face in the next few hours
if this total Siege is not
lifted well time is running out the
hospitals as you said are overwhelmed
every moment they're getting more
casualties I mean under circumstances
like this any normal hospital would be
struggling because you don't have the
supplies to treat the normal things you
treat but this is a situation where
you're increasing what they have to do
because every hour more people are
injured and now you've got people also
who need care because they may become
ill because they don't have their usual
medications life-threatening illnesses
like diabetes like uh people with kidney
failure who would normally get dialysis
these things are not happening so you've
got more and more people who are
severely ill and you have also have the
people who've been suffering enormous
mental
trauma days and days of no sleep Terror
uncertainty they too will be becoming
people who cannot cope with what's going
on around but there's nothing for
them we know that 21 Hospitals and
Clinics have been ordered to evacuate by
Israel just tell us what that would mean
if they do if if doctors walk away from
hospitals what will that mean for those
those inside it who are sick what do
that mean for those who wake up in the
morning under rubble and need to be
taken somewhere for
treatment that it means death that um
and that's why the doctors have not
walked away even though they are losing
colleagues they they they're running out
of supplies they're running out of the
means of doing what they're there to do
but that's why they're not walking away
because you know that if you leave those
people that you're caring for will die
and exactly those people who've managed
to survive an air strike won't have
anywhere won't have any help if you're
not there it's an impossible thing to
ask of healthcare
workers how unprecedented a situation is
it for a hospital not only to have to
work amidst the war zone we we've seen
sadly in many parts of the world that
civilians fall victims to to air strikes
but this situ situation in which they
not only have to deal with that but they
also have to deal with a Complete Siege
if you look at Ukraine for example we
see a lot of support going from the West
to help civilian infrastructure that is
not the case here is
it indeed and I I have been in Ukraine
in the last year and we're talking about
a completely different situation because
exactly at the very time when they need
the most support I'm talking about the
healthcare workers where they need more
fuel where they need more medical
supplies where they need more of
everything they're running right out of
all the trauma supplies running right
out of blood supplies running right out
of all the things that they need to keep
people going producing the oxygen
everything um at the very time those
things have been cut off from them and
the and the worst part well not the
worst part it's all awful but help is on
the border we've C supplies we've got
the things they need but we're not being
allowed to bring them to the healthcare
workers who are working so hard to save
lives thank you so much for sharing your
perspective and insight into what's
happening Dr Margaret Harris
there thank you